---
toc: true
layout: post
categories: [markdown, csp, ap]
comments: true
title: 5.1/5.2 Reflection
---

# 5.1/5.2

Think of three beneficial effects of your projects based on 5.1 Unit:
1. My todo list can be used by students to manage the complexity of life—they can plan their homework tasks out in advance.
2. The timer system can be used in combination with the todo list to section our students’ time into smaller intervals, decreasing procrastination.
3. The school schedule system can be used to remember your schedule. This is especially useful for students in a new trimester or who are new to their school because it allows them to view all their classes and the schedule for each day. 

Think of a potential harmful effect of your project. Answer with an opinion and learnings so far this year:  

A potential harmful aspect of our project is that the calculator could cause students to get lazy. Not doing arithmetic by hand can cause them to lose their basic mental math skills.

What are pros/cons on internet blockers at router and lack of admin password on lab machines at school? 

Pros:
- Enforcing a common firewall for all students across the school district allows administrators to block potentially dangerous sites that may be inappropriate or contain malware
- Lack of admin access ensures that students cannot mess with district internals or get access to information such as other students’ grades
Cons:
- Students are often restricted from services such as AWS due to the restrictive firewall policy, which hinders learning

What concerns do you have personally about the digital divide? For yourself or for others.

Personally, one concern is that the digital divide perpetuates social and economic inequality. It means that individuals from lower income backgrounds are less likely to have access to technology and the internet, leading to a lack of access to resources and opportunities that are essential for their future prospects. This includes a lack of access to quality education, job opportunities, and basic information and services, which can greatly impact their ability to succeed in today's society. For others, the digital divide also raises concerns about the potential for an even larger divide in the future as technology continues to advance. Without proper access to technology and digital skills, these individuals will be left behind and face even greater challenges in the future job market and in their daily lives. Furthermore, the digital divide can also lead to a lack of digital literacy and digital skills, which are increasingly in demand in today's digital age. Without these skills, individuals will struggle to compete in the job market, leading to even greater economic disparities. In conclusion, the digital divide is a pressing issue that requires immediate attention and action in order to ensure equal opportunities and a more inclusive society.
